## Short Description

Production forecast overview consists of two parts, yield and harvested acreage forecast. Our forecast result is updated daily during crop season.

For north america, we gather weather data from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) satellite products and Global Historical Climatology Network Daily (GHCND) stations, while for south american, we use MODIS and Climate Prediction Center (CPC). We choose 7 parameters to make forecast, which are Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), Normalized Difference Water Index (NDWI), Land Surface Temperature (LST) in day and night, maximum and minimum temperature, and precipitation. 

## Roadmap
We provide county, district, state and national level forecast results for corn and soybean for the United States. We also provide district, province and natioal level forecast results for Canada.

The update time periods of national level results are shown as below:

|Country                 | Crop                            | Start Day    | End Day | 
| :---------------------: | :----------: | :----------: | :-----------:
| US | corn | 153 | 305 |
| US | soybean | 153 | 353 | 
| CA | corn | 129 | 209 |
| CA | soybean | 121 | 249 |
| CA | spring wheat | 185 | 249 |




## What Datasets Are Included?

Weather data used to make predictions:

|Dataset    | Parameter    | Source        | Data Coverage    | Frequency | Historical Start  | Historical End | Format |
| :---------------------: | :----------: | :----------: | :-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------:
| ndvi | ndvi | MODIS | Global     |Every 8 days| 2009-01-01  | until now  | double |
| ndwi | ndwi | MODIS | Global     |Every 8 days| 2009-01-01  | until now | double | 
| lst | lst_day | MODIS | Global   |Every 8 days| 2009-01-01  | until now | double |
| lst | lst_night | MODIS | Global |Every 8 days| 2009-01-01  | until now | double |
| ghcnd | tmax | GHCND | North America |Every 8 days | 2009-01-01  |  until now | double |
| ghcnd | tmin | GHCND | North America |Every 8 days | 2009-01-01  | until now | double |
| ghcnd | prcp | GHCND | North America |Every 8 days | 2009-01-01  | until now | double |
| cpc | tmax | CPC | Global | Daily  | 2011-01-01  | until now | double |
| cpc | tmin | CPC | Global | Daily  | 2011-01-01  | until now | double |
| cpc | prcp | CPC | Global | Daily  | 2011-01-01  | until now | double |





## Data Source and processing
These products are generated from Sentinel-2 level-2A 20m images. The original tile is 5490x5490 in size in a UTM zone based on the grid definition. To make it easy to use with cropland data layer (CDL) released by USDA, the original tiles are reprojected and corrected to have the same coordinate reference system (CRS) and resolution with CDL. This means the resolution of our final product is 30m.

This product mainly focuses on the features of croplands. Consider cloud or snow would have great influences on these features, only pixels which are not distinguished as cloud/snow will be kept in the GeoTIFF. One can check https://earth.esa.int/web/sentinel/technical-guides/sentinel-2-msi/level-2a/algorithm for more information about cloud/snow classification of Sentinel-2 level-2A product.

For the crop classification result, all the labels are the same as cropland data layer (CDL) released by USDA, except for the unclassified pixels, which will be marked as 255 due to long term cloud effects. At the same time, the NODATA value is 0.

## API Structure
(Need to discuss more with Mike)
|Attribute                 | Value                            | Description    | 
| :---------------------: | :----------: | :----------: 
| Start Date | 20180401 etc | Start date of downloading period |
| End Date | 20181028 etc | End date of downloading period |
| State | IL etc | State abbreviation |
| District | 10 etc | District code of state |
| County_fips | 0 | County_fips code |
| Polygon | (Python format polygon) | Polygon region of interest |


## Product Limitations
For both
* There would be a gap of ~1 pixel between the results and scenes, which is caused by resampling during the projection process.
* The data of some pixels are missing due to serious cloud issue. These pixels are masked as no-data (with value 0).
* The boundary of district level data might be different from that of CDL, which is caused by the small difference of boundary shapefile. But the accuracy of value would not be affected.
For Geo-spatial product
* The district level data is generated by merging original tiles of Sentinel-2 and clipping using shapefiles. As a result, the merged satelliate images within a district might not be generated within one day, but they are definitely yielded within 5 days.
For crop classification
* Only pixels that were farmland during the last year will be classified in our model. 
* Some pixels cannot be effective classified due to long-term cloud issue. These pixels are masked with value 255.

## User cases
Images are stored as the raster format of GeoTIFF with US district shape. Users can define polygon regions and the start-end period based on their own interests to effeciently read or download these GeoTIFF as series directly from Barchart database. Users can also input district or county fips code to directly get the information or download the corresponding images.
* One can monitor crop growth within a large or small region based on these past and current year data.
* One can investigate how to use EVI, NDVI, NDWI to make crop classification without downloading the whole tiles like before.
* One can study the changing tendency of vegetation features during crop season.
* One can take advantage of crop classification result to estimate the total production of crops within a certain region, to make better trading decisions such as futures based on these crop-classification.


## Support
For questions regarding the dataset, you may contact – cashdata@barchart.com


## Terms

* [Trials are available](https://www.barchart.com/cmdty/contact)
* Data is for internal use only, and redistribution is expressly forbidden
* Contact Barchart directly at cashdata@barchart.com for more information.


